AUTOMATION FRAMEWORK - Article + Power Point Slides

1) What is Selenium Framework?

Selenium framework is a suite of automation testing tools based on JavaScript Framework.

a) It could run tests directly on the target browser, drive the interactions on the required web page and rerun them without any manual input.

b) It eliminates repetitive manual testing that consumes lots of time & effort.

c) Confirms with the idea of Agile & DevOps, which endorse the continuous delivery workflow.

There is Selenium WebDriver & IDE too. 

(PPT)
1) Linear Driven Framework (IDE) - pros -> 

2)Modular Driven Framework ()- 

3) Behaviour Driven Framework - 
which allows testers  & developers to participate actively in the project.
It also increases collaboration between testers & developers.

Pro of BDF - It can understable and readable by non technical persons.

Cons of BDF - TEchnical expertise is required.

4) Data Driven Framework - Getting data from external sources / files like Excel Files, Text Files, CSV Files, ODBC Sources, DAO Objects and they are loaded into the variables of the test script.

Its Pros - Reduces no. of scripts.
Its Cons - High techincal expertise required.

5) Keyword Driven Framework - 

a) also known as table - driven testing.
b) its suitable for only small projects & apps.
c) it is performed based on the keywords specified in the excel sheet of the project.

i) Pros - A single keyword can be used across multiple test scripts, so the code is reusable.

ii) Cons - The initial cost of setting up the framework is high, & it is time consuming & complex.

6) Hybrid Framework - combine Keyword & Data Driven Frameworks.

i) Pros - type leverages the advantages of all kind of related frameworks.

ii) Cons - tests are fully scripted in Hybrid Framework.

Three examples of Hybrid Driven Frameworks - 

7) What is Data Driven Testing Framework in Selenium?

Data Driven framework is used to drive test cases and suites from an external data feed. The data feed can be data sheets like xls, xlsx, and csv files.








